CodeStat
======

A simple program that counts lines of code and makes stats. Because we all love stats!

Creating filters
---
CodeStat uses filters to know what kind of files to include and exclude when counting lines.
Filter is a .json file located in the *filters* directory, here is a sample filter:

	{
		"comments": "^//.*$",
		"excludes": [
			"*~*"
		],
		"includes": [
			"*.txt"
		],
		"name": "Example filter"
	}

The filter above is named "Example filter" it scans .txt files and skips files that have "~" in their name (usually backup files). Comments are determined using a regular expression.

Creating export formats
---

If you want to export a report created by CodeStat you have to choose one of the export formats. Export formats are also .json files but they are located in *exports* directory, here's a sample export format file:

	{
		"name": "Textile table",
		"extension": "Textile (*.textile)",
		"prepend": "h1. CodeStat report",
		"item": "|%FILENAME%|%FILESIZE% (%FILESIZEB% bytes)|%LINES_SOURCE% (%PERCENT_SOURCE%)|%LINES_COMMENTS% (%PERCENT_COMMENTS%)|%LINES_EMPTY% (%PERCENT_EMPTY%)|%LINES_TOTAL%|",
		"append": "|*Total files: %TOTAL_FILECOUNT%*|*%TOTAL_FILESIZE% (%TOTAL_FILESIZEB% bytes)*|*%TOTAL_LINES_SOURCE% (%TOTAL_PERCENT_SOURCE%)*|*%TOTAL_LINES_COMMENTS% (%TOTAL_PERCENT_COMMENTS%)*|*%TOTAL_LINES_EMPTY% (%TOTAL_PERCENT_EMPTY%)*|*%TOTAL_LINES%*|
		_This file was generated by \"CodeStat\":http://github.com/arturo182/CodeStat on %CURRENT_DATE% %CURRENT_TIME%._"
	}

When the stats are exported to a file first the *prepend* text is inserted, after that the *item* text is inserted <u>for every file</u> and lastly the *append* text is inserted.

###There are some variables that can be used in export blocks

####For the *item* block

* *%FILENAME%*
* *%FILESIZE%*
* *%FILESIZEB%*
* *%LINES_SOURCE%*
* *%LINES_COMMENTS%*
* *%LINES_EMPTY%*
* *%LINES_TOTAL%*
* *%PERCENT_SOURCE%*
* *%PERCENT_COMMENTS%*
* *%PERCENT_EMPTY%*

####For *prepend* and *append* blocks

* *%TOTAL_FILECOUNT%*
* *%TOTAL_FILESIZE%*
* *%TOTAL_FILESIZEB%*
* *%TOTAL_LINES_SOURCE%*
* *%TOTAL_LINES_COMMENTS%*
* *%TOTAL_LINES_EMPTY%*
* *%TOTAL_LINES%*
* *%TOTAL_PERCENT_SOURCE%*
* *%TOTAL_PERCENT_COMMENTS%*
* *%TOTAL_PERCENT_EMPTY%*
* *%CURRENT_DATE%*
* *%CURRENT_TIME%*

Credits
---
Main icon by [famfamfam.com](http://famfamfam.com).